ENG-26411 - initial draft of working with rag overview and conceptual… (#835)
opendatahub-io/opendatahub-documentation: assemblies/deploying-a-rag-stack-in-a-data-science-project.adoc

:_module-type: ASSEMBLY

ifdef::context[:parent-context: {context}]

[id="deploying-a-rag-stack-in-a-data-science-project_{context}"]
= Deploying a RAG stack in a data science project

[role='_abstract']
As an {openshift-platform} cluster administrator, you can deploy a Retrieval‑Augmented Generation (RAG) stack in {productname-short}. This stack provides the infrastructure, including LLM inference, vector storage, and retrieval services that data scientists and AI engineers use to build conversational workflows in their projects.

To deploy the RAG stack in a data science project, complete the following tasks:

> * Install and configure the LlamaStack Operator.
> * Enable GPU support on the {openshift-platform} cluster. This task includes installing the required NVIDIA Operators.
> * Configure vLLM as the inference provider.
> * Deploy a Llama model by using vLLM. This task includes creating a storage connection and configuring GPU allocation.
> * Configure a vector store, for example, Milvus, and ingest domain data for retrieval.
> * Ingest documents by using Docling in a data science pipeline or a Jupyter notebook to keep embeddings up to date.
> * Integrate LlamaStack with the inference service to enable RAG functionality.
> * Expose and secure the model endpoints.

Reviewer: Consider simplifying this list with the suggested changes:
- llama stack operator can be enabled in ODH/RHOAI now modifying the DataScienceCluster
- We just need to deploy an inference model (it doesn't need to be llama) using standard ODH/RHOAI steps
- I've removed the vector store configuration step, as it is done automatically when deploying  the LlamaStackDistribution

```suggestion
* Activate the LlamaStack Operator in {productname-short}.
* Enable GPU support on the {openshift-platform} cluster. This task includes installing the required NVIDIA Operators.
* Deploy an inference model (e.g. llama-3.2-3b-instruct), which involves setting up a storage connection and configuring GPU allocation.
* Enable RAG functionality by creating a LlamaStackDistribution instance. This deploys the LlamaStack along with a Milvus vector store and integrates them with the inference model.
* Ingest domain data for retrieval in Milvus by using Docling in a data science pipeline or a Jupyter notebook to keep embeddings up to date.
* Expose and secure the model endpoints.
```
